---
title: Utilities
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Utilities

> >

Some of the changes affect how Bootstrap Utilities work, let's take a look.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Position Properties

- `position-{VAL}`

`static` `relative` `absolute` `fixed` `sticky`

> >

The position property in CSS lets you control how an element flows within the context of the existing page.

static - The element will flow with the natural flow of the page. This is the default.

relative - The element would go where it would normally go, but we can offset it's position from that spot.

absolute - The element is removed from where it would normally go and is positioned in relation to the nearest relatively position parent...or the window if nothing reaches the window.

fixed - This element moves relative to the viewport (browser window)

sticky - This element will stick to a certain position as it scrolls by.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Arrangement Properties

- `{PRO}{POS}`

- ### PRO

`top` `start` `bottom` `end`

- ### POS

`0` `50` `100`

- ## TRANSLATE

`translate-middle`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/ZELaMQw?editors=1000?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Where an element sits is relative to a position attribute and we have four sides with three position options we can specify.

There's also an extra property you can use to center elements in each of the corners.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Border Width

- `border-{NUM}`
  - NUM: `1` `2` `3` `4` `5`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/NWdeQVL?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are some border width utilities for for borders from 1 to 5 pixels. By the way, `border-1` happens to be the same size as just border. You can also combine these with the contextual colors or sizes, but they will affect all of the borders in the current element.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Radius Sizes

- Removed `rounded-sm` `rounded-lg`
- `rounded-{NUM}`
  - NUM: `0` `1` `2` `3`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/YzNxoKz?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

A couple of classes were removed for border radius sizes.

If you want a little better control over the roundness of the edges you can use these sizes right here. `rounded-0` is the same as not adding `rounded`, `rounded-1` is slightly smaller roundness than just using the `rounded` class and `rounded-3` is slightly bigger.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Gap

- `d-grid`
- `gap-{AMT}`

`0` `1` `2` `3` `4` `5`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/RwKjqda?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There's a small addition to the list of display properties called d-grid. It allows you to build simple grids quickly.

There's an additional utility called gap that is only relevant to classes like the `display-grid` class.
