---
title: Offcanvas Component
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Offcanvas Component

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/B5N03_03"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i>go.raybo.org/B5N03_03</a></div>

> >

Bootstrap 5 doesn't really introduce a ton of new features, but one of the truly new features in recent version lets you build sidebars into your current project.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Trigger

- `button` or `A`
  - `data-bs-target`
  - `data-bs-toggle="offcanvas"`

> >

There are two parts of the Offcanvas container: the offcanvas trigger as well as the offcanvas content. Let's start with the trigger, which shows or hides the content.

The trigger can be either a button or an anchor tag. If you're using a link, you can simply add an `href` with the ID of the target, or you can a button an include a `data-bs-target` attribute with the ID or any CSS selector.

Although you can trigger these with JavaScript. Adding a `data-bs-toggle` with the value of `offcanvas` will initialize the component as well.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Offcanvas Container

- `offcanvas`
  - `show`
  - **`offcanvas-POS`**
    - POS: `start` `end` `top` `bottom`
  - **`offcanvas-TYP`**
    - TYP: `header` `title` `body`
  - `data-bs-scroll` `data-bs-backdrop`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/mdmKpOx?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

This is the thing that you want to show. The main container uses an offcanvas class.

The component will be hidden by default, but you can add the `show` class to have it show the component when the page is loaded.

You can control the position of the offcanvas with the `offcanvas-POS` class. The component will take the full width or height of one of the sides, so this lets you control where it appears.

There are some classes for the content inside, so you can have a header, title and body. It's also common to see a close button in the header that lets users close the component.

By default, when the component is showing, the background will have a dark overlay and not scroll, but you can control that with the `data-bs-scroll` and `data-bs-backdrop` attributes.

Notes: 
- `offcanvas-POS: start, end, top, bottom`
- `data-bs-scroll="true"`
- `data-bs-backdrop="false"`

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Offcanvas Navbar

- `data-bs-toggle="offcanvas"` in `navbar-toggler`
- `navbar-nav` inside `offcanvas-body`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/JjNmzee?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There is another option for the `offcanvas` component. You can use it inside a `navbar` component and it creates an interesting look for the navigation.

If you already have a `navbar`, the key is to change the `data-bs-toggle` property and change it from `collapse` to `offcanvas`. The button that usually toggles the `navbar-collapse` will point to the Offcanvas component instead.

You also need to add a `tabindex="-1"` to the `offcanvas` component and if you're using a header, which you really should so that it can have a close button, you should also have a `aria-labelledby` property with an ID of the header.

Other than that, the `navbar-nav` part of your navigation goes inside the `offcanvas-body`