---
title: Regular Components
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Regular Components

> >

A lot of components have changed in this new version, so let's check them out.

--

# Badges

- Removed: `badge-*`
- `badge-pill` to `rounded-pill`
- slightly bigger padding

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/bGWMejm?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

One of the changes is to remove the badge color classes, so you can use the background utilities instead, so bg-primary instead of badge-primary.

The `badge-pill` class is also gone, so replace it with the `rounded-pill` class when needed.

There's also just a bit more padding added on these.

---

# Breadcrumbs

- Removed classes
- `--bs-breadcrumb-divider`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/eYWrzxN?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Breadcrumbs are a pretty simple component with some minor changes. padding, background color and order-radius have been removed.

In addition to that, you can easilly customize the divider with a new CSS custom property.

---

# Buttons

- Removed: Toggle Buttons
- Removed: `btn-block`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/eYWrzxN?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

The ability to toggle buttons is now more easily achievable with forms, so make sure you review those notes. They are much simpler to use now and don't require any javascript.

Also, the btn-block has been removed, you can do the same with using the new display-grid class with the gap classes.

---

# NavBars

- Require container within

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/PoWBBye?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

The big change in navbars is that they now require a container class. That makes it easier for bootstrap to style this component and I don't know about you, but I almost always added this anyways. Just be careful if you're updating from Bootstrap 4.

---

# Close Button

- `close` to `btn-close`
- Use background-image SVG
- `btn-close-white`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/xxgyGyy?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

This is a super minor change, but it will bite you when migrating. The close button that is used often in many components has been renamed to btn-close. The old name was a bit too generic, so watch out when updating your sites.

Also, before the button used a literal &times character. now it uses an actual embedded SVG.

And there's also a white optin that you can use.

---

# Removed Layouts

- `card-deck` `card-columns`
- `jumbotron`
- `media`

<a href="https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/examples/" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

The layout variants for components have been removed including two classes for cards. One was card-deck and the other card-columns.

Another popular component was the jumbotron, which has also been nixed, so make sure you look for those in your code when migrating.

The media layout component has also been removed.

If you want to duplicate these styles, you can do it with the grid or column classes. A good place to go is the examples page.
