---
title: Interactive Components
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Interactive Components

> >

Some components in Bootstrap rely on javascript to perform certain tasks, so let's go over those.

---

# Dropdowns

- `dropdown-menu-dark`
- `<li>` dropdowns

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/bGWMejm?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are just a couple of minor changes on dropdowns. The main change is that there is a dark menu option which looks great.

Another minor change is they now support list items, so that they're a bit more flexible.

---

# Popovers

- `arrow` to `popover-arrow`
- `whiteList` to `allowList`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/abpRrpV?editors=1010" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are some very minor changes to popovers. You won't have to worry about these unless your existing code uses these properties.

Some of the classes that were a bit vague have been renamed, so for example, the arrow class is now the pop-over arrow class. That makes it harder to confuse with other classes that might use that name. This will really only matter if you're programmatically creating a template

One of the options available in the javascript has also had a minor modication, so who instead of whitelist, you use allowList. Just make sure you're looking for that if you're upgrading.

---

# Toasts

- Can be positioned
- 5 second default
- `whiteList` to `allowList`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/vYgVBGb?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are some very minor changes to popovers. You won't

The javascript whitelist option has been renamed to allowList. So again, make sure you're looking for that if you're upgrading.

---

# Tooltips

- `arrow` to `tooltip-arrow`
- `whiteList` to `allowList`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/vYgVBGb?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are some very minor changes to popovers. You might not even have to worry about these.

The arrow class is now the tooltip-over arrow class. Again, this will only matter if you're programmatically creating a template

The javascript whitelist option has been renamed to allowList. So again, make sure you're looking for that if you're upgrading.

---

# Carousel

- `carousel-dark` variant

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/XWpPGMG?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

The main change with the carousel is the addition of the carousel-dark variant with black text. That's useful if you have a carousel with a light background since the normal carousel has white text.
