---
title: Next Steps
state: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Next Steps

> >

Hey there again, thanks for watching. This course really focuses on the changes in bootstrap 5. For a comprehensive guide to almost every feature in Bootstrap 5, make sure you watch my other course, Bootstrap 5: Essential Training.

There's also a couple of great resources on the Bootstrap site. First, there's an extremely detailed list of [all of the changes](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/migration/) since version four. It has even more details than what I was able to add to this course. So for example, it lists all of the changes to the documentation and some of the changes to the Sass version of Bootstrap, which I don't cover on this course.

Another cool page is the examples page, which has a set of pages with code for a lot of bootstrap features. There's one page in particular that's useful called [the Cheatsheet](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/examples/cheatsheet/), which is a list of samples with all of the components in a convenient place with links to the documentation.

Finally, if you want to know what I'm up to, check out raybo.org my blog...which, by the way, was built with Bootstrap 5, where you can find links to my social media, additional videos and links to all my social media.

Make sure you folow me on LinkedIn https://linkedin.com/in/planetoftheweb. I post new tips, tricks and tutorials every weekdays and I often livestream on the platform as well.

Thanks for watching and good luck in your learning journey.
